Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear fellow practitioners, because of my excessive worry for my child, I
sometimes don't understand that children
don't place their trust in others. Because of this lack of
trust,
my teaching becomes
imposition and coercion. This imposition and
coercion breeds
resistance in children, leading to deceit, is
n't that right, dear fellow practitioners?
That's a way of educating without understanding.
But I believe my mother has a
much more understanding way of educating you, dear fellow practitioners, with
love. Remember this, dear fellow
practitioners. My mother has a
very good method: when a child makes a mistake, she makes them lie face down
on the bed and interrogates them. She
asks them about this and that, then asks, "Is that right? Is
that good? Is that right?" "Do you think that's a bad thing or a
good thing? You have to realize that if it's
bad, then you'll stop doing it." "
Next time, I promise to stop." Then,
today, I'll spank you five times.  The
mother gave the
child one whip, and the other four were given as a token of her love. She said, "If you do that again, I
'll give you four more whips."
So, was the child comfortable?
Because during the beating, the
child was able to communicate with their mother,
to express their thoughts. At
that time, the child would say, "That's why I did that,"
even though they were lying in bed being beaten.
But the child was able to share
their feelings and emotions, and the mother,
holding the whip, taught the child moral principles.
After getting up from the bed after being
beaten, the child felt that their mother had spared
them four whips,
right? They felt the
love, not that they deserved five whips, but
today they only received one. The other
four were given out of love
from their mother. And the child felt that
one whip was fair, wasn't it?
Because when their mother asked them,
they completely realized their mistake, right?
But now...  There are people who beat
and scold their children, not treating them equally,
without asking the child if
they've voluntarily
realized their actions. They just say things like, "If it's like this, then it's like this, then it's like that," and then the
neighbors laugh in
their faces. They always say, "Just like that, for the sake of
your pride." Yen has never seen her mother scold or
yell, "If it's like
that, then it's like that, then the neighbors will laugh in your face." She only says, "If it's like that, then it's like
that, then
you are well-behaved. Do you think you are well-behaved? Do you think what you did was right? Do you think what you did was right? Actually, do
you feel ashamed of what you did?"
That's why my mother taught
me how to control my own thoughts and
actions. That's how my mother is, very
loving and
wise, isn't it, dear friend? Very
loving and wise. That's
why Yen is also starting to share
stories about Tet (Vietnamese New Year) in the past with her mother and father. Everyone,
please remember, remember the way our
ancestors taught us, remember the love our ancestors
gave us. Only by remembering can we
have something to give to our children, right?  The
most effective way for children to learn morals is from their parents.
Only parents
can teach them with all their
heart, and only parents are the ones who live by the
standards that children can follow, enduring
hardships and suffering. For
example, Yen just said this: "My siblings and I went out to
play all day on the first day of Tet (Lunar New Year),
and when we got home, we were all
exhausted. Then Mom cooked something
delicious, and after we finished eating, none of us were
jealous or complained about throwing away the dishes because
we understood that Mom had cooked for us,
right? So we divided the tasks
among ourselves: some cleaned up, some washed the dishes, some put them away, some
swept the floor, right? That's
why
we were so well-behaved in the past. It's because our parents
knew how to teach us. Don't blame
the world; it's because our parents knew how to teach
us. Teach your children with all your heart.
Don't bring the competition of society into teaching
your children. For example, if your child is
n't like the neighbor's child,
that will put pressure on them and make them feel inferior."
Parents only force their children to be good because of the neighbor's reputation,
not because they truly care
about their own well-being, they don't understand their children. Is
n't that right, dear friends? We should say, "My child, you
can't absorb much, don't study
like the neighbor's child, just study at this level, okay?" Then,
later, you can
learn a trade, diligently study a trade. Right now,
your child's ability to absorb information isn't there. If you force them to study
too much, they'll become stuck. It's true that if they can't absorb
information, they'll become stuck, right, dear
friends? When we see our children
not absorbing information, we look for many tutors,
but the more tutors they have, the more stuck they become. The nature of it is that if they can't absorb information, the more people teach them, the more knowledge they'll gain, and the more tired they feel. So, if a child can't
absorb information, we should let them exercise,
let them have many playtimes,
not just playing soccer or
badminton. These activities help
their minds to be more open because
while they're playing, they have to think, and that
thinking is what
develops their thinking ability.  Being quick and sharp-witted
will make your child intelligent. Let
them play chess, badminton, or
soccer. They will naturally
develop their quick thinking and agility. It's
important to value their quick thinking and agility. From this quick
thinking, they will be able to do their homework, learn, and
progress. So, for a while, let your child
go to school, and for a while, let them play soccer, play with
friends, form a soccer team, and
play together. After playing, in the evening, their mind will be sharp, and
they'll be able to do their homework well.
That's how we learned back then.
My mother taught me that too. I'll
tell you, Hữu, as
soon as we leave class, we play
music and stick games, right? Then we
jump, we call it jumping, the kind of jumping where you put your
hands on top of each other.
But in class, they learn very quickly,
right?
But now, students don't
get their clothes dirty, they have to be well-behaved. So
what do they use to develop their
intelligence? They just watch movies. What movies?
What movies? That means they just keep going.  They receive
intelligence from others, and if they can't
develop their own intelligence, they need lots of
group activities. They should be made to play a lot,
even
indoors, right?
This will develop
their quick thinking, and they'll
like that kind of thinking. That is, they'll adapt to that way of thinking,
and when they do homework, they'll read the problem, and that
adaptation will make them
enjoy thinking, right? Based on
what I've
experienced from
my parents' education, I think my
mother's education is still wonderful, dear
friends. Parents
now often do all
the chores for their children to save
time for studying, which is dangerous, dear friends. They
assign chores like cleaning,
sweeping, mopping, and housework. In smaller households, they
use a few styrofoam boxes to grow vegetables and grass for the
children to tend. I'll tell you about how my
mother used to assign chores to them.  Each
person has their own small garden with the little one. Although the house
only has two rows, each child
cuts a little bit and takes care of it themselves. We'll be diligent, we'll water and tend to it.
We like the
results of our efforts, we like the vegetables to grow well,
so we have to know that
liking our own achievements is what makes us progress in school,
right? Otherwise, a person will
never achieve
success on their own; they only achieve success by going to school
and getting good grades. That's not the
optimal approach. That's only
for those who are already good students and eager to
learn. Usually, those who are
n't eager to learn can't handle
that, right, dear friends?
So here, Yen also says that
parents are wonderful, and we must
remember the memories of how our parents taught
us to become the people we are today and apply that
to raising our children. Sometimes we
say, "I was so well-behaved back then, why is my
child so naughty now?" We have to remember that it's because of our
parents' way of educating us, right? We give birth to children and
receive their education,
and our children receive
our upbringing. So, the two of us...
What's different about this upbringing? We need to
reconsider, don't we, dear fellow practitioners? We need to
reconsider so that we can educate our children.
The memories of our parents are
profound and unforgettable, dear fellow
practitioners. Therefore, I sincerely hope you will
remember the memories of your parents. Then, as
disciples of the Buddha, we diligently practice the Dharma,
and we can be equal
to our children and grandchildren. All
matters are explained according to the law of cause and effect. Because
we explain things to our children more according to the law of cause and effect, it
will develop their thinking abilities in all
matters. Thinking
in all matters is also a way to help
them become intelligent. So,
dear fellow practitioners, remember to be diligent! Diligently practice and
transform your karma, and
happiness will come to you. If you don't give,
others
won't receive your diligence.
For example, if you diligently encourage
others, then you will enjoy the blessings; you don't give to
anyone, do you? That's how it is
usually in the
Buddhist temples, among the Buddhists.  Those who don't understand
diligence often say things like, "If
you're upset, then go ahead. I'm
very busy, I'm not going anywhere." But if you don't go, you
won't gain merit, right? Not having
merit is like going to work, is
n't it? We go to work now,
reaping the fruits of our past karma,
while we go to do good deeds and practice cultivation now,
sowing seeds of merit so that we can
continue to reap them, right, dear fellow practitioners?
That's why some families run out of merit, and
when their merit runs out, misfortunes come one after another, right? So what's the point? Right
now, our family still has
merit, we're harvesting merit, meaning we're doing
work and cultivating merit at the same time,
so we won't encounter those times when
misfortunes come one after another, right, dear fellow practitioners?
So today, having the opportunity to attend the
year-end celebration of the Dharma center, I'd like to
share about diligence and
diligent practice so that Buddhists can reduce the
suffering of seeking unattainable suffering. And by reducing the suffering of seeking
unattainable suffering, we will sow the seeds of karma
in the suffering of birth, old age, sickness, and death.  If
we practice cultivation, we can
reduce our illnesses, right, dear fellow practitioners? If
we reduce our illnesses,
our children will suffer less later on and won't have to take
care of us as much. I had a karmic
destiny to be sick for 10 years, bedridden,
before dying. But now, if I practice cultivation, it will only take 2
years for it to gradually lessen, right? Some
people die after only 2 years. We're not necessarily
different from others. Because we know that in our past lives, we weren't necessarily
good people,
right? So, if we love
our children and grandchildren, we'll take care of them.
But we must cultivate
our karma so that later, our children and grandchildren won't have to take
care of us so much, which is very
difficult, isn't it? If we practice cultivation, we'll
save money on medicine, our children will be better off, and if we practice cultivation, we'll be less
sick and we'll be less burdened by their care, and
they'll still maintain their filial piety. If they take
care of us too much, they'll become unfilial, right?
So, we're benefiting ourselves, aren't we?
That's why, for the elders here and the
young people, if anyone asks about work, why we work and
travel all day, then we should...
How should I answer?
I practice Buddhism because I know how to take care of
my work, right? I practice Buddhism so that
my wishes can
be more easily fulfilled, right? I practice Buddhism so that
my family can be better off, I practice
Buddhism so that my life can be less miserable,
right?
I practice Buddhism to gain merit, not to cultivate anything else. I practice Buddhism to achieve virtue, and virtue
generates merit,
okay, dear fellow practitioners? So,
on this occasion, I also
encourage you all, dear fellow practitioners, in 2020, to strive for more
families to change their ways, for
more harmonious Buddhists, and for
more diligent Buddhists to practice diligently.
[Music] [Music] [Applause] [
Music]
[Applause]
[Music]